mind your decisions i'm presh tallwalker
a circle contains two semi-circles that
are tangent to each other
also the diameters of these two
semicircles
are parallel cords of the large circle
if the large circle has an
area equal to one what is the combined
area of the two semi-circles
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
to get started suppose the upper
semicircle has a radius
equal to a and the lower semicircle has
a radius equal to b
we will then construct a rectangle as
follows
two of its sides will be equal to a
we then have this distance is equal to
the radius b
minus a so its distance will be equal to
b
minus a the other side of the rectangle
will have a length equal to a
plus b from here we will
extend this side of the rectangle to be
a chord of the large circle
suppose the length here is equal to x
we can solve for the value of x by the
intersecting chords theorem
we have x multiplied by a plus b
is equal to b minus a multiplied by a
plus b
we'll solve for x and we'll cancel out
the term a plus b
in the numerator and the denominator
thus
x is equal to b minus a
we then will simplify this diagram and
we'll consider
the following right triangle
notice we have an inscribed angle that's
equal to 90 degrees
therefore the cord opposite this 90
degree inscribed angle
will be a diameter of the circle in
other words
this cord passes through the center of
the circle and
its length will be equal to 2 times the
radius of the circle
we can then use my favorite right
triangle theorem
we will have the square of 2a plus
the square of 2b is equal to the square
of 2r we can square
each of these terms and then simplify by
dividing both sides by 4
to get a squared plus b squared is equal
to r squared
from here we can solve the problem the
area of the large circle is equal to one
which means pi r squared is equal to one
we can then calculate the combined area
of the two semi-circles
it'll be equal to one-half pi multiplied
by a-squared
plus one half multiplied by pi
multiplied by b squared
we can then simplify this and we can
then
substitute that a squared plus b squared
is equal to r squared
we thus have pi over 2 multiplied by r
squared
but we know that pi r squared is equal
to 1
therefore pi over 2 multiplied by r
squared must be equal to one half
and that's the answer it's rather
remarkable
that the combined area of the two
semi-circles
is always equal to half the area of the
large circle
this is true regardless of how the two
semi-circles are
in the diagram i think it's a
fascinating result
that two semi-circles fill exactly
half of the large circle
thanks for making us one of the best
communities on youtube
see you next episode of mind your
decisions where we solve the world's
problems
one video at a time
you